hey this is presto Walker here's an
email I received I really like your
YouTube videos and I wanted to send you
one of my favorite riddles in my opinion
it is somewhat hard but the solution is
very cool Alice and Bob are playing a
game using a chess board this is an 8x8
grid Alice starts by placing a knight on
the board then they take turns moving
the knight to a new square one that it
has not been on before standard chess
rules apply the knight can only move in
an L shape that's two squares in one
direction and one Square to the side
this is one possible place the knight
could go and these are all the other
places the knight could go from the
original square each time the knight
moves it has to move in this L shape the
first player who cannot move the knight
to a new square loses the game who wins
if both players play optimally and what
is the winning strategy so I'll admit
this problem stumped me and I could not
figure it out I want to thank Sebastian
for suggesting this problem and for
sending me the solution can you figure
it out give this problem a try and when
you're ready keep watching the video for
a solution
so before I get to the solution I want
to mention this problem is an example of
game theory a mathematical field where
you solve games of strategic interaction
Alice's best move depends on what she
thinks Bob will do and Bob's best move
will depend on what Alice did and might
do each person is trying to outsmart the
other like a cat-and-mouse chase
remarkably we can analyze these
situations and actually find solutions
for some games in this game we can prove
Bob can always win no matter how Alice
plays how can we do that we will use an
interesting concept called a graph
coloring proof so let's prove that Bob
can always win this game we start out
with our chess board and we're going to
divide it into 8 different 4x2 regions
so 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 & 8 so what's so
important about these well let's analyze
one of them in particular suppose the
knight is in one of these squares where
could the knight go while staying in the
same 4x2 region this is the key to the
whole problem from a square in a given
4x2 region a knight has only one legal
move to stay in the same 4x2 region so
from this square there's only one
possible spot the knight could go while
staying in this 4x2 region so what we'll
do is we'll color code these two squares
the same color so from either of these
squares the knight can only move to the
other position this will be true for
every single square in this 4x2 region
for example from the lower right hand
square there's only one possible place
the knight could go from there and vice
versa so we'll color these two the same
color we can do it for the remaining
squares in this 4x2 region well mark two
squares the same color if the knight can
move between them now what can this
coloring do
well it'll apply to every single one of
these four by two regions so from a
given 4x2 region we know there's only
one legal move to stay in that same 4x2
region so how does this help Bob win the
game Alice starts the game by placing
the night in some 4x2 region let's say
she places the night here what Bob will
do is he'll then move the night to the
only other legal square in the same 4x2
region now the key is that bob has taken
the only other legal square in that 4x2
region this forces Alice to move the
night to a new 4x2 region on her next
move she cannot stay within the same 4x2
region because these two squares have
already been visited so let's say Alice
moves here now where should Bob move
well he's then going to move the knight
so the only other legal square in that
4x2 region he applies the same coloring
pattern to that region in this case the
knight is on a yellow square so Bob is
gonna move to the other yellow square as
long as Bob continues this strategy he
will always have a move and he forces
Alice into finding a new 4x2 region on
every single move Alice has to keep
finding new squares in different 4x2
regions and eventually she will not find
one the game has to end in 65 moves or
fewer as there a total of 64 squares
therefore Bob can always win this game
and like magic we've solved this problem
and shown that Bob can always win did
you figure it out thanks for watching
this video please subscribe to my
channel and make videos on math you can
catch me on my blog mind your decisions
if you like this video you can check out
my books which are listed in the video
description and you can support me on
patreon if you have a map
topic suggestion you can email me presh
at mind your decisions calm and you can
catch me on social media either at mind
your decisions or a presto Walker